Social engineering

pretexting is when the attacker pretends he/she's someone else...
pharming is when the attacker has access to the victims computer, knows what webpages he/shes visiting often, and mimic that website. Then the victim will open a malicious webpage instead of the legitim, and maybe downloads some malicious file.
phising: when the attacker sends fake emails, malicious links, files in the email, mimicing that its legal
spear phising is a phising attack which is directly tartget the victim, after a lot of soc engineering the attacker customize the attack (email) specificly to the victim
whaling is kind of a spear phising, but the victim is a high profile business executive, a key member in a company.
vishing is a phone calling when the attacker pretends to be another worker of the company or that hes from like your bank and tring to get sensitive data.
SMS phising is when you get a sms with a link in it.
USB drop key is when the attacker leaving a malicious USB(s) somewhere. Like in the building, on an expo...plugging in that usb stick may cause your system, or your companies death...
A watering hole attack is a targeted attack that occurs when an attacker profiles websites that the intended victim accesses.he attacker then scans those websites for possible vulnerabilities. 
If the attacker locates a website that can be compromised, the website is then injected with a JavaScript or other similar code injection that is designed to redirect the user when the user returns to that site. 

piggybaking is when someone entering into a restricted area with someone - usually with the person’s consent
tailgating is the same but without the person's consent..
dumpster diving is when someone trying to get information from the trash containters,recycling containers
shoulder surfing is when the attacker just looking "over the shoulder" and checks what the victim enters as username/password or PIN.
badge cloning: the attacker clone the badge/card to the building 

SET
BEEF
SpoofApp: This is an Apple iOS and Android app that can be used to easily spoof a phone number.
SpoofCard: This is an Apple iOS and Android app that can spoof a number and change your voice, record calls, generate different background noises, and send calls straight to voicemail.
Asterisk: Asterisk is a legitimate voice over IP (VoIP) management tool that can also be used to impersonate caller ID.

Authority
A social engineer shows confidence and perhaps authority–whether legal, organizational, or social authority.
Scarcity and Urgency
It is possible to use scarcity to create a feeling of urgency in a decision-making context. Specific language can be used to heighten urgency and manipulate the victim. Salespeople often use scarcity to manipulate clients
(for example, telling a customer that an offer is only for today or that there are limited supplies). Social engineers use similar techniques.
Social Proof
Social proof is a psychological phenomenon in which an individual is not able to determine the appropriate mode of behavior. For example, you might see others acting or doing something in a certain way and might assume that it is appropriate. 
Social engineers may take advantage of social proof when an individual enters an unfamiliar situation that he or she doesn’t know how to deal with. Social engineers may manipulate multiple people at once by using this technique
Likeness
Individuals can be influenced by things or people they like. Social engineers strive for others to like the way they behave, look, and talk. Most individuals like what is aesthetically pleasing. 
People also like to be appreciated and to talk about themselves. Social engineers take advantage of these human vulnerabilities to manipulate their victims.
Fear
It is possible to manipulate a person with fear to prompt him or her to act promptly. Fear is an unpleasant emotion based on the belief that something bad or dangerous may take place. 
Using fear, social engineers force their victims to act quickly to avoid or rectify a dangerous or painful situation.
