Executive Summary
A brief high-level summary describes the penetration test scope and major findings.

Scope Details
It is important to include a detailed definition of the scope of the network and systems tested as part of the engagement to distinguish between in-scope and out-of-scope systems or 
segments and identify critical systems that are in or out of scope and explain why they are included in the test as targets.

Methodology
A report should provide details on the methodologies used to complete the testing (for example, port scanning, Nmap). You should also include details about the attack narrative. 

Findings
A report should document technical details about whether or how the system under testing and related components may be exploited based on each vulnerability found. 
It is a good idea to use an industry-accepted risk ratings for each vulnerability, such as the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS).

Remediation
You should provide clear guidance on how to mitigate and remediate each vulnerability. 
This information will be very useful for the IT technical staff, software developers, and security analysts who are trying to protect the organization (often referred to as the “blue team”).

Conclusion
The report must have a good summary of all the findings and recommendations.

Appendix
It is important to document any references and include a glossary of terms that the audience of the report may not be familiar with.

Base metric group
Includes exploitability metrics (for example, attack vector, attack complexity, privileges required, user interaction) and impact metrics (for example, confidentiality impact, integrity impact, availability impact).

Temporal metric group
Includes exploit code maturity, remediation level, and report confidence.

Environmental metric group
Includes modified base metrics, confidentiality, integrity, and availability requirements. CVSS includes different metrics and measures that describe the impact of each vulnerability

System hardening
System hardening involves applying security best practices, patches, and other configurations to remediate or mitigate the vulnerabilities found in systems and applications. 
The system hardening process includes closing unnecessary open ports and services, removing unnecessary software, and disabling unused ports.

Process-level remediation
It is important to protect operating system (for example, Linux, Windows, iOS, Android) processes and make sure an attacker has not created or manipulated any processes in the underlying system.

TEchnical controls:
  -  system hardening
  -  user input sanitization and query parameterization
  -  multifactor authentication
  -  process-level remediation
  -  patch management
  -  key rotation
  -  certificate management
  -  secrets management solution
  -  network segmentation

Administrative:
  -  role-based access control
  -  secure software development life cycle
  -  minimum password requirements
  -  policies and procedures

Operational:
  -  job rotation
  -  time-of-day restrictions
  -  mandatory vacations
  -  user training

Physical:
  -  access control vestibule
  -  biometric controls
  -  video surveillance

  
